Good morning.
Welcome everybody.
We are in our next session starting with
learning the deep dives into the various
tools and how to use Copilot within them.
If you've been attending the previous
sessions,
then you've kind of walked through this
this journey with us where we started
with kind of the core understanding of
prompting and all the things we need to
make this tool successful.
We migrated into talking about some of
the specific office tools.
We covered Word, we covered Excel.
Today we're kind of bringing everything
together with a recap of if you missed
the core,
we're going to be showing some of the
Outlook stuff and the team stuff,
but it's going to be more of a recap
because we covered that in the core.
So if you have access to those recordings,
go check those out.
We will talk about PowerPoint,
dig into that,
and kind of the same way we did Word and
Excel and tie it all together.
So we've got an hour to go through this,
some housekeeping stuff.
I cover this every time.
It takes about a couple minutes.
But over in the side,
you'll notice that chat is disabled for
the meeting,
as is turning on microphones and cameras,
because normally we have a fairly large
volume and we don't want anybody cross
talking or, or things like that.
And questions are hard to identify in a
in a chat that's constantly rolling by
with lots of people contributing.
So what we have done is we've turned on
the question and answer.
So if you look in the top bar,
you've got AQ and a button.
If you click on that,
it brings up something on the panel.
We've already pre populated that with
some information,
the most important one being the license
request process.
We get that question a lot during these
sessions.
How do I get a license?
That process is an internal one for you.
We've got some details in the Q&
A section posted already.
Other than that,
feel free to ask any of your questions
that you want.
I have a a bunch of really smart
Microsoft people here with me that were
able to look at the Q&
A and answer questions while I'm still
presenting.
So feel free to put those in.
It won't break up anybody's flow or
anything.
We'll get those answered for you and and
then everybody can benefit from them.
On top of that,
since I did mention the license request,
I always mention the fact that yes,
there there is a licensed version and an
unlicensed version.
They do have different capabilities and
the way you can identify that is if you
have this work web toggle at the top,
This is how I get into it.
This is the chat.
This is what most people are kind of the
landings spot for using Copilot.
You start at office.com,
log in with your Salinas account,
and you'll land somewhere here.
It'll look like this.
You can also get to it through Teams.
You can get to it through some other
places.
I recommend using the web.
It always has the newest features and the
newest UI.
OK, again, if you've got the work web,
then you have a license.
You can also look here at the bottom
where your name is.
You can see mine says premium.
If I did not have a license,
then you would not have the workload
toggle.
It would look blank like this.
And in the bottom corner here it would
say basic, OK,
I will call out when certain features are
going to work and when certain features
are not going to work depending on which
license you have or whether you have a
license or not.
So just be aware of that, OK.
And then obviously check the the Q&
A and there's some instructions on that
on how you can get a license if you need
one.
OK, so let's dive into it.
I'm gonna start by recapping sort of some
of the teams capabilities and the outlook
capabilities because I covered most of of
what you can do inside of the the core.
The two hour starter that we did,
we did two of those sessions.
So those recordings are available just to
kind of rehab re cache or rehash some of
the things that are in there.
And then I'll give you some other other
thoughts on things to kind of link it all
together.
OK.
And then we'll we'll pivot over and leave
at least 35 to 40 minutes ideally for
PowerPoint.
All right, so let's dig into it.
I like to start in teams because there's
a,
there's a natural overlay point where
teams and,
and outlook sort of work together.
And so it's easier to start in teams and
flow to outlook.
So I'll start in teams.
So one of the things that that you can
that you may or may not be aware of,
right, is inside of teams.
We do have meeting recap.
I showed that last time.
That is where after a meeting you go
through and one second I can show you
what that looks like.
You go through and you can see a recap
basically based on the AI, right?
So as the meeting is recorded or
transcribed,
you do have to record or transcribe the
meeting to get that to work.
What happens is afterwards the AI kind of
goes through the transcript and it
generates this recap here, right?
And So what it's going to do is it's
going to pull out a bunch of information
for you, right?
Who spoke, generate some topics.
These are not keywords, right?
It's,
it's actual like looks through and finds
the context of the topics and breaks it
into natural sort of divisions within the
meeting.
And then it creates chapters for those.
You've got meeting notes here, right?
This is your AI summary.
It pulls in any of the files that were
shared.
Some things that that kind of you may not
have known you could do that are a little
bit more deep dive.
There is an audio recap right here.
That's not going to audio recap replaying
the meeting.
It's basically going to generate like a
podcasty type of thing.
It's going to take the the meeting and
build a summary and give you like a quick
high level audio recap of it.
So you can like generate these podcasts
of your of your meetings that you missed
or very long meetings or things like that
and sort of listen to.
Yeah,
looks like there was a different link
that people, some people joined.
We're not at capacities yet.
I'm not sure how that happened,
but we may need to pause for a moment and
let these others come in.
And we were like at 200 or so attendees.
Now it's doubled,
but I guess there's maybe another 500 or
so that are on an old link.
OK, that would that would make sense.
I'll tell you what,
we're on a pretty tight time frame.
So what I'm gonna do,
and since it's recorded,
I'm gonna go ahead and just just keep
going so I can get the most amount of
content in.
And then the people who missed it,
maybe at the very end,
Nathan will call that out and let people
know like, hey, if you came in late,
like here's the recording,
you missed a little bit of the the front
stuff.
So I think that might be the the way that
to go with that.
But I appreciate the call out on that.
Thank you.
Sure.
OK, so here's all of our good content.
I talked about audio recap,
being able to get that sort of audio
recap of your meetings for your drive in
or something like that,
which you can do beforehand.
And then maybe if you've got a long
commute or something like that,
kind of get caught up on your meetings or
on your way home.
So that's an available option to you.
You also have the ability to ask
questions about the meeting.
So while meeting notes are good,
they're very generic.
They're high level, right?
They're going to try and be for everybody
in the meeting, regardless of their role,
and it's going to call out things like
tasks.
If you need something more specific,
there's two ways you can kind of tailor
this.
One is click the copilot button and you
can ask questions and if the,
if the question can be answered from
something that's in the transcript,
then then that's how it's gonna work,
right?
So asking things about stuff that
happened, like prior to the meeting,
I would go into chat for that and I would
say things like during this meeting,
you know, this thing came up.
Can you give me the history behind that?
Looking across all of the emails,
all the previous meetings, right?
Like that's going to going into the chat
here is going to open up the full
aperture of looking at the meeting and
everything that came before it.
When I'm in here,
where is it when I'm in here?
This is looking only at the meeting.
It's only looking at the transcript.
It's very focused, right?
And so by coming in here and asking
things like who attended this meeting and
their roles.
Now that's a good use because there was
probably a roll call at the beginning of
the meeting.
That's not going to make it into the
meeting notes.
It's not going to give you a detailed
list of everybody's role and their name.
But I can still ask for that and have it
build it for me so I can be kind of more
interactive with the meeting information
while I'm grounded in that meeting.
Now,
if I want to look at a lot of other stuff
in regards to that meeting,
just remember that while this recap
brings it all together in one place,
it's still available in chat.
I can still look at it in a broader
context of all of my workflow and my
projects and my emails and everything by
going over to chat and bringing it up,
right?
But we talked about kind of being able to
ask questions here.
And then the last way that I can tailor
it is this custom summary, right?
So this AI summary is going to be generic
and high level.
I can go into custom summary and I can
create multiple templates and get very
specific custom reports, right?
So like the default canned ones or
speaker summaries and executive reports.
The executive report gives me like a high
level summary of everything that happened.
I created this engineering report, right?
Because that's what I care about.
The way I did it was I went into this
create template, clicked on it,
and I get to put like a,
like a prompt in here, right?
Good prompting applies.
This is where I get to tell it what I
want, how I want it laid out.
If there's certain sections that you want,
like maybe you want your meeting summary
to be like key action items, key concerns,
most, most disagreed on topic or you know,
anything that you want it laid out in a
certain way,
this is where you get to do it.
You get to tell it exactly what you want.
So like in my case for my engineering
report,
I'll click on the edit button here so you
can see it.
You can see I basically said give a more
casual summary,
but focus on any technical issues or
roadblocks because as,
as an engineer on the team,
that's all I care about.
Are there technical roadblocks and,
and you know,
are there issues anything else not as
important to me, right.
And then I can hit a preview to see this
is, you know,
I'd probably add some more detail like
how it should be broken down.
I probably should have a section called
technical roadblocks,
another one called ongoing issues or
something like that.
I could be much more detailed with this.
I was just trying to give an example.
And then of course, this is for you,
but if,
if it's something that you think is of
value to others, you can share this,
right?
Because remember,
you're just sharing the prompt that gets
that customized report.
You're not sharing the content of the
report, right?
They have to have permissions to the
meeting.
They have to be able to get into the
meeting.
But this at least gives them a type of
summary so that if they have the same
role as you,
they can get a similar report for the
meetings they go to, right?
Maybe you don't have access to those
meetings,
but it's more about the summary and the
kinds of information and the formatting
rather than the actual content from the
meeting itself.
It's something they can reuse each time,
right?
So I can go in and I can,
I can do all of that good stuff.
So you have a lot of kind of tuning
options there.
Some other quick hits that you may not
have known you had inside of inside of
teams.
So you can see here I've got a team chat
going on, right?
There's like 4 people in this team chat
inside my organization.
So I have the copilot button here.
I can open this and it's grounded in this
particular conversation.
So like for instance,
if this was a highly active conversation
and we this is my demo environment,
so there's not a lot of content.
But let's say I had a ton of stuff going
on and we were talking about things.
I could come back in here and I could say
like summarize what was discussed
yesterday.
Right now,
that's not going to do anything because
there's no no real content here, right?
I just set this up this morning to show
you this example.
But if this was an active thread,
it would give me a nice little summary,
right, of all those things.
And it's saying basically this chat was
initiated,
it was established to coordinate the
launch.
The stated purpose is to provide a place
for team members to discuss and align.
And then the net take away, right?
Yesterday's activity was limited to
setting the content and the intent
because I created it.
However,
I could ask all those questions and this
is private for me only I'm seeing this
this stuff.
So I can ask questions about like, well,
what did you know?
What did this person say and what was the
take away from this one?
I noticed you have a raised hand.
We don't have a way to turn on the
microphones and all that good stuff.
So if you have a question,
just throw it in the Q&
A section and one of the Microsoft people
will pick it up and answer that for you.
OK,
so now I've got this ability to ask
questions for me,
but I also have the ability to call out
to copilot inside this area here, right?
I don't have it enabled in my environment
right now,
and it does require IT to have it enabled.
I'm not sure if it's enabled internally
for you, but you can always give it a try.
But the way that basically looks is when
I'm in a team chat like this,
if I do the AT symbol right now you see
how I've got these three people,
I can call out the individuals.
If you have it enabled, you can,
you can test this now.
Just go into a team chat and hit the AT
symbol.
And if one of the people is listed as
copilot,
then you can actually talk to copilot as
if it was a person in the meeting and you
can ask it for information,
you can ask it questions,
things like that.
And it'll post like a person into the
chat with the answer so that everybody
can see it, right?
So like a good example would be since
this is the launch team,
I could go in here and I could say at
copilot and, and say at copilot, hey,
what's the actual launch date?
And it would go out and it would do a
normal Copilot search.
It would find all of that data across the
information available to it inside the
organization.
And then it would pull that answer back
and post it in line and it would say, hey,
I got your answer, the launch date,
such and such.
So now instead of having to leave the
conversation, go to Copilot,
get the information from a chat,
then cut and paste it into the team,
you could do it all right here.
You can just make a shout out to Copilot
just using at, you know,
at typing Copilot.
That's if that's been enabled.
And if it has not been enabled,
it's on its way.
It's going to become a standardized
feature.
The reason it has to be enabled is
because it's considered a like an early
feature.
Right now it's not, it's not finalized.
Some other things is you can use that
same copilot search that I mentioned in
an individual conversation too.
So this was a team conversation,
a group conversation.
This is an individual conversation.
So if I'm having a lot like I have,
you know,
ongoing conversations with my manager and
things like that,
if he gives me something to do or tasks
me and it was like like a while ago and
then there's been more conversations and
I'm trying to remember what it was like.
I don't have to search through the whole
chat history.
I can always just go to Copilot right
here and ask and it's going to give me an
answer again,
based on that individual chat only
grounded in that chat.
I could do it in the standard chat here,
right?
I could say,
look at looking at my chats with my
manager,
looking at my chats with so and so,
you know,
tell me the last task that was assigned
to me.
But maybe it makes more sense for me to
do it right here in the conversation
because that's the moment that I remember
it, right?
So again, remember,
a lot of this is about controlling the
surface area that Copilot sees by,
by having things selected, right?
The chat can see everything,
but you've got to kind of give it a lot
of prompting and coaching to dial it into
what you want.
Whereas if you're already where you want
to be,
you just want to hit the copilot and get
an answer.
And so that's kind of where you're going
to see it start to surface.
It is not necessarily embedded in
channels yet.
So like when I'm in a channel here,
notice I,
I don't have that copilot button.
I believe that's coming.
I don't have an exact time moment that'll
be available.
You can still ask copilot about channel
information here and it'll give you an
answer.
But to actually go to the channel and get
a a spec like a specific scoped
conversation with copilot,
I don't think we've we've opened that
button up yet.
All right,
so I talked a little bit about all that
and then I said there was an overlap
between Outlook and Teams and why I like
to start with with Teams.
So that that overlap, by the way,
is Teams recap.
So when you're doing Teams recap,
the way that Teams knows that that it
needs to,
that you know that you're not attending,
say you don't want to attend a meeting,
but you want to get to the recap, right.
The problem is the way that you get to
that recap is by having permission to the
meeting.
So when you decline a meeting,
you can't get to the recap anymore.
You lost your permissions to that meeting,
right?
When you look at a recap,
it'll tell you who has access to the
recap based on who's in this meeting,
right?
This is all the people that were invited.
If I had declined this meeting,
I would have lost my ability to get into
the meeting.
I would have lost permissions and I
wouldn't be able to get to this recap
button because I couldn't get to this
area.
So what happens is people start replying
tentative,
and then that gets confusing because then
you don't know who's going to be in the
meeting, right?
So the way to get around that is a
feature inside of Outlook, right?
So inside Outlook is where you typically
accept or decline a meeting.
You can do it in Teams as well.
But inside Outlook or Teams calendar,
you've got your RSVP, right?
So when I go to a meeting,
I get these options to RSVP to the
meeting.
Let me go in here,
let me find a meeting and then I'll RSVP.
And so typically what we've seen is
accept, right?
That keeps your permissions decline.
That removes your permissions and drops
it off your calendar.
So one,
it's hard to find it and get back into it,
and two, even if you could find it,
you don't have permissions to get into it.
So or tentative,
which says I may or may not be there.
So now I'm in a situation where if I know
I'm not going to be there,
but I want to get to the recording,
I kind of have to either say yes or
tentative.
And and then that nobody knows if you're
showing up or not.
So what we've done is we've still got
accept and decline,
We still have tentative,
but we've added another option called
follow.
So follow is another RSVP option that was
designed to work with recap.
So when you follow a meeting like that
one,
it leaves it on your calendar so that you
can find it.
Two, it puts following in front of it,
so you know that you're not supposed to
attend it.
The next thing it does is it frees up
this free busy information.
So even though it's on my calendar,
still somebody could book this time,
right?
It doesn't show me as busy because I'm
only following.
And then more importantly,
it notifies the organizer of the meeting
that you're not attending because you're
following it.
And it reminds them to turn on
transcription, right?
Because there's no point in following a
meeting if nobody turns on transcription,
because if you're going to go back to it,
there's not going to be a recap, right?
The only way to get that recap is to have
it transcribed.
So this,
this accomplishes a lot of those things
all at once, keeps permission, opens free,
busy sets it as followed,
let's the person know I need this to be
transcribed because I'm not showing up,
right?
So all of that comes together in that
follow feature that is in web version of
Outlook and that is also in the new
Outlook client.
It is not in classic Outlook.
So if you're using the the classic old
Outlook start considering moving over to
the new Outlook.
All AI features moving forward are only
going to show up in in new Outlook.
So things like drafting,
which I covered last time, coaching,
all that good stuff that's all going to
stay in classic Outlook and in all the
future versions.
However, new features,
things like follow things like schedule
with Copilot,
we've got some stuff around tasking from
emails like tasked this with Copilot.
Like all that stuff is only going to be
in new outlook and web outlook moving
forward.
So you're going to want to probably make
that switch if you're going to become a
heavy AI user, right?
And what I, what I mean by those features,
just to remind you,
let's say I select an e-mail and if I go
in here,
I have this schedule with Copilot option,
that's an AI assisted scheduling that's
only going to be in new Outlook and on
the web.
And what that essentially does is it just
helps me schedule the meeting, right?
It looks at free busy information for
people,
finds out kind of when they're available,
creates a title for it,
looks at the e-mail and determines what
the agenda is likely to be,
sort of builds an agenda for me,
summarizes the e-mail conversation.
So we're all on the same page, right?
And then we're off to the right seats.
So it kind of helps me me hit the ground
running.
And you can do a lot of that scheduling
from inside of, of Outlook, right?
When I'm in Outlook and I hit the copilot
button and I get this little pop up here,
again, just like Teams,
it's looking at the surface area over
here,
it's seeing kind of what I'm looking at.
So I can ask specific questions about
things, right?
You can see that it's already looking at
this e-mail.
That's what it's seeing.
So if I ask questions,
it's already grounded in that e-mail,
right?
Same thing.
If I, if I select this e-mail,
it updates it to that e-mail.
So it's,
it's doing the same thing essentially as
this without me having to tell it which
e-mail I want it to tell me about.
It's automatically looking at the e-mail
that's selected right now.
I could always go deeper.
I could say, you know,
look at my entire inbox or, you know,
look at the entire thread of,
of conversations I've had about Project X
over the last 30 days.
Like I can still do that here just like I
could here.
It's just,
it's kind of helping by pre staging the
e-mail that's selected.
I can always get rid of it.
And now this is essentially the exact
same thing as this, right?
It's looking at everything,
but it's trying to be helpful by by
starting with the e-mail that I've got
selected kind of pre staged for me, right?
Makes sense.
And then it it can do all the normal
stuff that you would expect that I
already covered in the core things like
scheduling, finding free time,
stuff like that.
If you do use a shared calendar or you
use delegated calendars or things like
that,
what I will tell you is make sure that
you're very clear in your prompting when
you want it to jump over.
It can look at a shared calendar or
shared mailbox.
It can look at a delegated mailbox,
but it's not going to by default, right?
So when you say things like summarize the
last four emails I got or the last four
emails,
it is going to automatically assume
you're talking about your inbox.
Even if you have a delegated inbox or a
shared inbox and that inbox just got 4
emails newer than yours, it is.
It's not going to scope to that unless
you say look at Corey Gray shared or
delegated mailbox right now.
I've told it I want to look at the stuff
in that mailbox.
Now if I don't, if I'm not a delegate,
it's not going to work.
It's still using all the exact same
permissions.
It's like going into Outlook and saying,
you know,
look at some somebody else's inbox and if
they haven't delegated it to you,
they're going to be like you don't have
permissions this person's inbox.
Same thing is going to happen here.
But if I do have shared permissions or
delegated permissions to Corey's inbox,
then I will be able to get into it by by
prompting it that way.
So just make sure that you take that into
account.
You have to be very when you want to jump
outside of your stuff,
you need to be very clear.
Even if you have permissions, right?
It's not all just looking at everything.
It's one big BLOB.
It's looking at your stuff and then you
have to tell it to open that aperture.
OK,
so we cover teams and we covered Outlook
and that gives me about 30 minutes to go
into PowerPoint.
Perfect.
OK,
So if you've been in any of my other
discussions,
you know that I always kind of talk about
the the multiple ways to use the tools
depending on what you're trying to do.
And I covered it in Word,
I covered the the three different
mechanisms and then researcher to do very
deep reports.
Then I covered Excel and Excel had again
the same 3 methodologies.
And then it had analysts to help it sort
of dig into a deep analysis of something.
So PowerPoint doesn't have that 4th
customized agent option like researcher
and analyst.
However,
researcher can help it and I'll explain
that in a second.
But what it does have is the other three,
those are kind of a constant.
And if you don't remember,
you haven't seen those videos yet,
the three ways that you can really work
with a given office tool is you can use
chat, right?
And you can ask questions about the
different, you know, PowerPoint files.
Tell me about this presentation,
summarize this presentation.
What's the key messages?
That's where you're kind of passively
asking about a file or trying to trying
to understand it, right?
The next level is when you have an agent,
this agent over here,
the PowerPoint agent.
And if you don't see that,
you can always go to all agents,
which opens up your agent store type
PowerPoint and you'll see it as a stand
alone agent.
And then you just can click the add
button.
Mine says open because I already added it,
right?
It's right here.
And so this is your,
this helps you understand,
but it also helps you create this is sort
of a an assistant to build a PowerPoint
presentation, right?
So like if I was going to go to chat and
I was going to use this,
this is gonna work even if I don't have a
license for both licensed and unlicensed
users.
I can come in to chat and I can do things
like summarize this PowerPoint and then I
can give it a PowerPoint file, right?
And it's gonna come back and it's gonna
say, all right, well,
here's what's in the presentation and
here's what it covers and,
and all that good stuff, right?
Here's a clear executive style summary.
Here's what it is.
Here's what it's going to cover.
OK, so like,
I don't need to open PowerPoint or go
anywhere specific because I just want to
know what's going on with this file.
That's easy.
I reference the file and I ask it to
summarize it.
I'm not going to modify the file like I'm
not going to tell it.
Oh, well,
make sure you add a slide about XY or Z.
You don't want to do that from chat.
That's not going to work very well, right?
This isn't where you co-author a
presentation.
This is very much a passive ask questions
and help understand data, right?
I wouldn't even go as far as to build a
presentation.
If I went in here and I said create a
presentation about pizza,
This is not going to be a good
presentation.
It's just not going to do a great job.
That's that's not what this is for.
It's a chat.
It's to have a very quick conversation
about something.
And it's like, hey, here,
here's what I would probably create for
you.
Like here it is.
Make these your slides, right?
Here's what you need to put together.
And that's,
that's not what I was kind of asking,
right?
I wanted it to actually like build it.
And then it's like I can convert this to
an actual PowerPoint if I told it to do
that.
Again, it's not going to be a good job.
Essentially what it's doing, just so,
you know,
in the background is it's going to kind
of write Python code and it's going to
use like a public Python snap in for
PowerPoint because that that's what this
does.
It's a chat.
It's not PowerPoint, right?
We have stuff specific for PowerPoint to
get you where you want to be.
And like I said,
see it's writing Python code.
It's it's writing Python code to create a
presentation.
It's not going to be great,
but that's not what chat's for, right?
Chats for answering questions and
chatting about content, right?
If I want to actually create something,
I probably want to use something that's
been trained on PowerPoint.
Like,
it knows the things PowerPoint can do,
and it knows how to build PowerPoints,
right?
It knows why you build PowerPoints and
what central stories are.
There's more to it than just the
mechanics of building a PowerPoint file.
That's where this agent comes in, right?
When I click on this agent,
it's an actual PowerPoint agent.
It's it.
It knows the kinds of things that go into
building a PowerPoint.
It knows what sorts of things PowerPoint
should have and how they should be laid
out.
It knows all the different tools in the
toolbox for interacting with PowerPoint.
You're going to get a better situation
here and you'll see like right away if I
said I would like a presentation on pizza,
right?
So a couple things become available to me
that weren't in the the previous one.
Like I can dial in exactly whether I want
to use the web,
whether I want to use M365 if I have a
license, if I don't have a license,
it'll only be web,
but I can still use this tool, right?
So I have a little bit of control over
this.
I could have done that in chat by going
into web mode.
But the point is,
like the agent helps me kind of walk
through that process and watch what
happens when I actually tell it to create
the presentation.
One big difference right away versus what
you saw before when I was in chat.
This one actually takes the time to
understand what I'm saying.
Like I want a presentation about pizza.
And so it's like, well,
what it what are the kinds of things I
could focus on?
It starts asking me questions because I
didn't give a good context rather than
just run off and build a a presentation
like chat did,
because chats trying to be quick and and
responsive.
That's what a chat is.
This one is actually like, all right,
well, what?
What should that I focus on?
Presentations typically have a theme.
These are the kinds of themes I can think
of as a pizza one.
But do you have another one?
Yeah.
Why don't you hit me with the history and
origins?
All right, well,
who's your target audience?
I didn't tell it that.
So it's like, who's this going towards?
Right.
So already it's trying to work with me to
to give me better options and a better
scenario.
I'm going to say it's for general
audience.
How long do I want it to be?
Just make it concise or make it auto take
however long you need.
Do you want more visuals?
Do you want more text?
Do you want it to be balanced?
I don't know, make it more visual.
And then it's like, all right,
what about themes?
Now notice these themes are all just like
generic Microsoft themes.
These are not Salinas themes.
We're going to cover that in a second.
This is not how you're going to make sure
that you use like the official Salinas
theme.
That's not going to be something that
you're going to do in the PowerPoint
agent that's coming.
We're working on tying together our
branding and our our ability to publish
type like templates and brands and
incorporate those into the agent.
But for now,
this agent here is not directly linking
into that ecosystem.
So it's just giving you some options here
that are like general ones.
I will show you how to use a Salinas
template in the next step, right.
So if I go here and I'm just going to
select Arctic go already I'm having much
more customized PowerPoint experience
than when I went into chat and I just
told it to build me a presentation, right?
A lot of people start there and then they
come back and then I got,
I don't really think these tools are that
great.
And it's like, yeah, I mean,
you're using a very hyper generic chat to
do something that's that's fairly
detailed.
Like you,
like you should probably be in PowerPoint,
right?
So you want to make sure that you're
using the the right tool for the job.
So when I told it to convert,
I'm going back to show you,
this is what the other one came up with.
This is what chat came up with, right?
It's it's very kind of generic, right?
It didn't ask me about my audience,
it didn't ask me who's going to use it.
It didn't ask me about a theme.
It just used this black background theme
and it just added some,
some generic stuff in and it,
it created slides out of these slides
here that it recommended.
And so, you know, it's not the worst,
but pretty generic.
When I went into the wizard,
I got much better follow up questions and
you can see it's taking a lot more steps
and what it produces will be much better.
OK, and I'll, I'll come back to that one.
So then the next level.
So those are two choices.
The agent which knows how to build
PowerPoint,
that should be your go to if you're
trying to create.
If you're just asking questions,
chat's fine.
So chat's good for understanding,
working with, comprehending PowerPoints.
The agent is good for creating
PowerPoints.
It's not great for the back and forth
editing.
Like you're not gonna hand it a
PowerPoint presentation and be like, well,
I want to change the wording on slide 3
to have such and such like.
It's not really your back and forth with
PowerPoint.
It's more creation, right?
So one is understanding,
one is understanding plus creation.
And then when we want to get to the point
where we're like actually interacting
with PowerPoint, going back and forth,
having copilot Co create with us,
that's when you actually go into
PowerPoint.
That's when we're going to open
PowerPoint and we're going to actually
use the the copilot that's built into it.
And that's that edit with copilot.
The key being edit.
Now this is where the licensed and the
unlicensed people drop off.
If you don't have a license,
you are not going to be able to have
copilot inside of PowerPoint moving
forward.
You may have it today,
it may already be gone.
We're in the process of removing it from
unlicensed people.
So it will not be inside the PowerPoint
app.
You'll have the agent for helping you
create and get going and you'll have the
chat,
but you will not have it inside of of
PowerPoint.
That's that's a licensed user thing.
So what I'm about to show from from now
on,
you have to have a license to do what I'm
what I'm doing, what I'm showing.
So what I told you was I can show you how
to use the Salinas templates.
So the best way to make sure that you use
those templates and stay on brand is to
actually work inside of the template to
begin with, right?
In other words,
rather than trying to select it from
somewhere,
actually open a open a document that has
the template you want to use.
Like in this case,
I'll take my Thunderbolt E bike launch
deck, right?
So I'm using a presentation that has the
the, the things that I want, right.
In this case,
it's got this really ugly blue template.
It's got these, these fonts right here,
right?
And it's saying like, hey,
do you want to save a copy of this or do
you want to replace it?
Because I'm about to start changing
things around and like,
I don't want the content,
I want the formatting, I want the color,
I want the font, I want the layout,
like I want that template brand.
So the first thing I always do is save a
copy if this doesn't come up,
like if it's not in read only mode and it
just comes up.
I still the first thing I do is I make
sure that I create a copy, right,
because I don't I don't want to break the
one that I've got.
I know I'm going to be doing something
new.
I just want the formatting.
So the first thing I do is I create a
copy always do that.
It's just it's safe because what's going
to happen is you're going to grab a
Salinas one that's got all the layout and
the template that you want.
You're going to forget to save it.
Then you're going to tell copilot to
build a new presentation.
It's going to wipe the old one,
put the new one and then it's going to
auto save and now you you don't have the
old one.
So just remember you want the template,
not the contents.
So open the one that looks and feels how
you want it to look, create a copy,
then start modifying the copyright.
So here I've got my copy.
I'll even change the name to say Demo of
template usage.
Right now I know I'm not using that same
file, right?
So I really don't care what any of this
content is like I can go in here and I
can delete all these slides like I don't
care.
All I want is the slide masters, right?
I want the, I want the layout, the fonts,
the colors.
So I don't even need to get rid of
everything because Copilot is going to do
that for me when I go into Copilot here,
right?
And I open this up just like we talked
about in Word and Excel,
you have to make sure that this edit with
Copilot is showing.
If this is not available yet,
it's rolling out now.
It should already be available,
but I do have some customers that might
not have it yet.
You have to have this enabled for all of
what I'm about to show you to work.
If you don't have that enabled,
if it looks like this,
you're basically using chat, right?
This.
Right here where it's got the, the,
the work web at the top and it's got like
stuff like like you're essentially using
this same thing,
but just inside of of PowerPoint.
Like it doesn't have any extra
capabilities.
Like if I go in here and I tell it to,
you know,
modify slide 4 and make the font bigger,
like it's not going to be able to do that.
I'm in chat mode.
So if you don't see that editing copilot,
you have to hit the button,
you have to turn it on.
It's right here, right?
I hit that plus, but now I'm good.
Now I'm editing and copilot.
Now I can say things like modify slide 3,
like now we're we're Co working on the
presentation.
It's two different modes.
There's the chat mode and then there's
the editing mode with copilot.
So now that I'm in here,
I can do things like create a
presentation or change this presentation
to be about, I don't know, rockets.
I just want something to illustrate the
fact that the content's going to
completely change,
but it's going to keep the formatting
right?
And so just like before,
because this one does know how to build
good presentations and things, right,
it's it's probably going to ask me some
clarifying questions just like the other
one did.
I didn't give it a lot of context.
This is bad prompting.
So it like who's the audience for?
Is it for rocket scientists or is it for
8th graders?
Right.
Like that's a wildly different spectrum
of data you need to build into a
presentation about rockets.
So at some point it's probably going to
ask me that, right?
So it understands the presentation with a
dark blue theme.
I'll transform it to be about rockets
while keeping the visual design impact
intact, right?
That's key.
So it figured out that I wanted it to use
the visual design.
So if this happened to have been a
Salinas template,
it would be following the, the,
the visual, you know, cues and things.
All I'm doing is is adjusting the content.
So that's,
that's the best way to if I'm going to
use Copilot to build a presentation from
scratch and I want to make sure that it
stays on a certain template or it stays
on brand.
Start with the template that you like,
open that up, save a copy of it.
Then tell copilot, hey,
I want to build a new presentation about
such and such,
but I want to keep this formatting or I
want to keep this style or in my case,
I just said change this presentation to
be about,
which implies that the colors and
everything stay the same, right?
I told to change the content, not,
not the core stuff.
And so you can see it's,
it's doing its thing.
Now again, it's not going to be immediate,
right?
I've,
I've asked it to gather a bunch of
information about the style,
understand the layout and the style and
thematically what it's doing.
And I've given it a really vague prompt
that says like,
make something about rockets.
And now it's like there's a ton of
information that's got to figure out
before it can even ask me questions about
what the presentation should be.
I could I the more clear you are,
the quicker it's going to be right?
The less it has to try and figure out
what you're trying to do.
That's a bad prompt.
Therefore,
I think I can get to where I want to be,
but it's going to take a while.
I didn't give it a good prompt, right?
Good prompting carries throughout all of
your apps.
Don't just assume that because you're in
PowerPoint,
you do what I did where all of a sudden
you forget your rules around context.
I didn't give it a tone like it could be
casual.
It could be very formal.
I could have said,
make sure that you include the technical
terms that that you know rocket
scientists would have would understand
and in language that they understand.
Like there's a million ways just in the
prompt that I could have already known
going down the chute that this is going
to be a better presentation,
more in line with what I want.
I can tell you already that based on the
casualness of this prompt, I, I,
it may get what I want,
but if I had a particular presentation in
my head,
this is not going to get me there.
There's going to have to be back and
forth and follow up.
And that's because I left it all out.
So that's kind of the way that you have
to look at, at these prompting things.
And then once you're in the tool, right,
this,
this is the premier way to kind of Co
work with copilot back and forth to,
to get the presentation where you want it
to be, right?
So, so again,
if it's a spectrum of the things you want
to do with PowerPoint,
if all you want is some information about
a presentation or a collection of
something, fine, use chat.
If you want to create something new or
dig in.
Now,
you should probably be using the agent
because it's more aware of what
PowerPoint's all about and how it,
you know,
how it needs to tell stories and be laid
out.
But if you're really like,
I'm going to create something and I'm
going to want to make changes like I have
a presentation in my head and I'm very
specific about what I want,
then you're best off going into
PowerPoint and,
and going into edit with copilot and
having that back and forth.
And when this is done,
you'll see like I'm going to go in and
I'm going to tell it I need detailed
speaker notes for all these slides and
it's going to go out and it's going to
actually look at what's on the slides and
build me out speaker notes for the slide.
So like I already know that I'm going to
go back and forth with this thing and
kind of tweak it until I get the
presentation that I'm looking for.
Now, while that's happening,
I want to show you I had mentioned
researcher and I talked about how
researcher can help with this.
If you missed the the two hour primer or
you know,
you're not familiar with researcher,
again,
this is for this is people with a license.
But if you have researcher researchers,
they exactly what it says.
It's a very deep research agent.
It's allowed to take a long time.
It's allowed to use hundreds of resources
if it needs to in terms of like lots and
lots of of links and sources and all that
good stuff.
And it pulls it all together and it
writes very, very detailed report.
So this is one that I did as a demo
during the,
during the 2 hour core learnings, right?
I said I wanted a very,
I wanted a detailed paper on all the
lines of business for Salinas highlight
anything that would make sense for us as
an E bike manufacturer.
And it asked me a bunch of follow up
questions and it asked me how long of a
report I wanted.
And I gave it some answers and you can
see that it did 115 steps.
It went through a ton of steps and it
used multiple models.
It wrote it with GPT,
and then Claude was allowed to look at it
and refine it.
So you had a couple models going.
But that's the beauty of us not not
owning a model, right?
Like certain certain AI companies,
like they have their model and that's
always going to be their model.
We just used whatever's best out there,
right?
So we use stuff from from Anthropic.
We use stuff from Open AI.
In this case,
we used open a is GPT and then we refined
it with Quad.
And so it went through and it went back
and forth.
And what it came up with was this final
paper here, right,
which had some some some graphics and
embedded, has some tables,
gives some guidance,
talks about a bunch of different areas.
You can see here,
it's got a bunch of links in it right
here, all that good stuff.
So like pretty extensive,
not a chat based answer,
but a pretty detailed report, right?
And this is the short one because I told
it to keep it like 5 pages or less.
I could have said go crazy.
It would have written me like some crazy
20 page brief or something.
But,
and you can see here's all the different
sources that use most of it was you
because your website's the source of
truth.
So why am I showing this during our
PowerPoint day?
Because at the bottom here you can see
one of your options is PowerPoint.
So if you start by saying,
I know I've got a very complex topic,
I think it's too complex of a topic for
copilot here to to build out like I it's
almost too much to try and and tackle in
a, in a quick little wizard over here.
Like I need a very detailed paper, right?
Because remember,
this is a common misconception with with
PowerPoint is the the thing with
PowerPoint is what's on the slides is not
the core message, right.
When you have a meeting and you're going
in with PowerPoint,
the slides are there to sort of be the
highlights of the talk track.
It's what you're saying.
It's not the slides.
If you're just standing there reading the
bullet points on the slides,
that's not really good use of PowerPoint.
That's kind of how it has the reputation
of death by PowerPoint.
Well, yeah,
nobody want I can read that stuff on my
own.
Like typically you've got slides that
have content and then the speaker is
giving you much more detailed and much
more in focus information.
That's why I like to use the researcher
to PowerPoint method because this gives
me the background of all the information
I'm actually gonna have to talk about.
This is the content, right?
I just need a PowerPoint presentation
that highlights the key talking points,
but I still need to know the material.
So if you start with researcher and you
learn the material and this is what the
actual conversations about,
then moving to a PowerPoint that has just
the highlights is a very natural good
flow.
That's what most people do.
They sit down and say I need to build a
PowerPoint for a subject matter that I
already know I'm going to be talking in
depth about.
And so I like this whole going through
researcher, building out the core content,
because then when I convert it to
PowerPoint,
it already knows all of the content it
needs to cover, right?
I don't have to walk it through like
building a presentation about pizza and
who's my audience?
All that the research notes,
that's the depth of that is going to tell
at the audience.
Like if it's a research paper on very
deep, deep concepts,
then it's going to have to build a
PowerPoint presentation for people who
understand those concepts, right?
They'll probably be an introduction.
But but the audience and all that's
pretty self-evident by what you have.
And so when you go into research and you
tell it to build you a PowerPoint
presentation from the content,
now you've got what you're going to be
presenting.
You've got a PowerPoint that sort of
highlights and emphasizes the key
concepts and information about it.
And the speaker notes are going to be
populated with the details from the
research paper, right?
So it's a it's a much more natural flow
from from paper to presentation.
Now, again,
you don't always have to do that.
If you've already got the information,
then just go for it, right?
So you can see here it finished.
Here's my here's my finished reasoning in
seven steps.
Here's what it did.
And sure enough,
it created a presentation on Nova
rocketry launch backing it updated this
this presentation here to have
information that's relevant to rocketry
like it literally kept the exact same
layout.
It just updated things like here.
It's like hero vehicle image all right,
so like here,
I would probably add an internal picture
of the rocket like it didn't have one,
but it's like that's where it should go
all of these right it it made all this up.
It made all this up because I didn't give
it any specs or details.
Now if this was an internal like you can
see here,
it's like it's a company pitch for Nova
rocketry.
Their Nova ascent all 12 slides now
included from market opportunity.
Couple things of noting some of the
imagery was updated.
All that stuff like this is all it's all
hallucination because I I didn't give it
any I rockets like I could.
And now if I had said,
I just want it to be about general
rocketry,
not a detailed single product rocket like
a Nova rocket right now that's going to
update the entire presentation and take
out any references to a very specific
rocket and it's going to talk about
rocketry in general.
But the the key take away here is it kept
my format right.
It replaced my content.
Again.
I had a bad prompt so I knew it was going
to miss the mark.
I would have to go back and forth and
dial in who my audience is and what I
want it to be about and actually give it
good, good prompting and good content.
But the key take away is I'm able to go
back and forth with it and get what I
want and it keeps on theme because I
started with the theme.
So the biggest thing I get from from
PowerPoint is how do I keep it on company
branding.
The way you do that is by starting with a
company branded product or presentation
and then go into PowerPoint itself,
go into edit with Copilot and start the
process of building a new presentation.
And obviously, as I've illustrated here,
prompting is incredibly important.
Now here I've gone in, I had researcher.
Here's the presentation that it built
right.
It went through and it took that big long
5 page detailed report on the product
business lines and it built me a
presentation about what I'm trying to
accomplish.
Here's the company profile.
Again,
all of the content I need to make this
happen is is, you know,
in the in the presentation that's or in
the the research paper itself,
right here are the different lines of
business.
I'm assuming that if I open this up,
let's see if I download this and I open
it,
it probably has pretty detailed speaker
notes.
I'm assuming.
Now notice it's not in company format.
I didn't start in a template because
there's no way to do that.
This was generated from researcher.
So like for this one,
I would have to go in and I would have to
kind of tweak it, right?
I would have to apply a template through
master slides.
There's there's processes to do that.
I'm not going to be able to like,
I'll tell you right now.
I've eventually we will get there,
But telling it in a prompt,
I want you to create a presentation.
Make sure you use this format and you
point it to a,
a PowerPoint presentation that has the
layout and the colors and everything that
you want.
Your mileage may vary.
I have had very little success with that.
That's a,
we know that that's something people want.
We know you want to be able to reference
a template and just have it suck the
template in and apply it to a,
to a brand new like we know that that is
a very desirable feature and we are
working on that.
But right now you're not gonna have great
luck with it.
I'm just being honest with you.
So the best, the best way to,
to get good results is open the template
you want and build the presentation in
PowerPoint with that template selected.
Doesn't work with Researcher.
You have to do a different method.
You have to go through researcher.
You have to build it.
Now what you could do as a kind of,
and I just wanted to see if it gave me
good speaker notes.
It did.
So you can see it built me speaker notes
out of it.
So we've got 4 minutes quick hack just to
get you through the through the finish
line.
What you can do is once I have this
presentation here,
I could convert this to Word or PDF.
And then I could go into here, right?
Have my blue background and my layout
that I want.
And from here I could say,
create a presentation using this
formatting and style,
but make it about and then I could,
I could prop, you know,
I could try and reference the file or I
could try and, and, you know,
back into it that way.
But for now, your best bet is to,
if you're trying to stay on brand,
open the template inside of PowerPoint,
tell it what you want.
If you're trying to get a really detailed
idea to PowerPoint and you want it to
really look good and be well done, try,
try and start in researcher.
Give it a nice detailed research paper
that has the content you want to present,
and then have it create the PowerPoint
from that content.
And if it's and if it's, you know,
if it's not in a format that you want
here,
the content and all of this is still
gonna be good.
It's just not gonna have the color and
the fonts and everything you want.
Then you can go in here and you can do
things like replace fonts or go in and go
into your,
go into your slide master and import the
slide masters from, you know,
the Salinas template or something.
Because ultimately these slide masters
are what it's using to determine the look
and the feel.
So if you, if you update the slide master,
if you update the actual presentation.
So not as smooth or as easy as I'd like
it to be.
We're working on that, but we'll,
we'll get there.
OK.
I threw a lot at you.
I always ask this question,
but I know my the team and the Microsoft
people are amazing.
So I'm sure that they've gotten all the
Q&A questions and everything answered.
But anything Nathan or or something that
I need to cover in the Q&
A that that I didn't cover or got missed
that we don't have an answer for yet?
No.
OK.
All right.
So before I wrap up,
I know that a lot of people were on a
link that went to a different meeting
earlier,
so you might have missed the beginning of
the meeting.
Remember that all of these sessions are
recorded and we can get you the links to
those recordings.
So if you missed the beginning, please,
please go and check out the recordings
for anything that you missed from the
beginning and you know,
post any of your questions to the Q&
A and either myself or the Microsoft team
will get you some answers.
Other than that,
hopefully you've enjoyed this sort of
multiple day,
multiple hours with Derek copilot
sessions.
I'm sure you're,
you're probably tired of my voice,
but thank you very much.
I I see some hands coming up.
Remember,
we can't unlock cameras or anything or
chat.
So if they are questions,
make sure they land in the Q&A.
Other than that,
I appreciate your time and I look forward
to to any future sessions that we'll have
together.
All right, thank you.
Bye.